this is how you create content that
Google cannot ignore hi I'm Joe Krause
host of the buying online businesses
podcast and today I'm speaking with
Bernard Huang who is a co-founder of
clearscope which is the leading SEO
content optimization platform before
that he started an SEO Consulting agency
which we talk about in the podcast
episode he was also a part of the 500
startups distribution team and flipped
his own website twitch metrics in this
podcast episode we talk about twitch
metrics we talked about how that started
how that evolved and how they actually
sold twitch Matrix and we also talked
about the things that he learned through
this sales process of selling his online
business with his business partner why
he sold his business which is really
important to understand and I think
understanding the focus of why you
should sell and something else a part of
that I'm going to let you find out in
the podcast episode because it's very
interesting I think you should have that
focus on that particular thing but
throughout this after we talk about him
selling the business we talk about
contents and content for Google and
creating content for Google because
that's what a lot of his clear scope
company is about we talk about topical
Authority content versus high search
intent what topical Authority content
looks like what it should include we
talk about high search intent content
and the keywords and what type of
keywords they actually look like we also
talk about the ratio you should have and
experiment with between topical
Authority content how much of that you
should have versus how much higher
search intent content you should have we
also talk about how you should be
creating higher search intent content
articles and how valuable they should be
and why they should be you know about a
particular product that has been
reviewed by a real person we'll talk
about black hat SEO strategies that you
should not be doing or should not try we
also talk about the Google helpful
content update what's involved in that
what we should be looking out for I also
share a way just one way that you can
create better product reviews that
actually builds EA 80 helps you have a
higher conversion rate which makes you
more money but also allows you to get
more traffic so it's like a triple
whammy is such a valuable thing and
that's just one way that I like to help
people think about building AIT traffic
and income through their content sites
something I don't regularly share out
here on the podcast also talk about the
relevance of backlinks now how relevant
they are and we also talk about how
important they may be in the future we
also talk about a b testing your content
and SEO and we talk about clearscope
what it was built for how it was built
for editorial content and bloggers and
how it actually works now this is such a
valuable podcast episode Bernard is
actually an SEO wizard he's been a great
SEO for some of the biggest brands out
there and he has so much to share and so
many profound insights in this podcast
episode that you are absolutely going to
love also another thing that you're
going to love is knowing that this
podcast is not the only way that I can
help you for free if you want to get
some of our free great resources go to
buyingonlinebusiness.com forward slash
free resources I have Frameworks on how
to buy businesses and things about
growing businesses on that page too so
check that out let's dive into the
episode
[Music]
Bernard welcome to the show thanks so
much for your time and coming on Sharon
thanks for having me it's a it's an
honor yeah man this is going to be a fun
chat I'm looking forward to learning and
picking your brain personally and then
also sharing a lot about what you know
not just in SEO but some of the cool
things you've done in business so the
first thing I want to chat to you about
is you uh you start you've you know you
start a business more starting
businesses from scratch and you
mentioned before we hit the record
button you probably do want to go down
the the acquisition and purchasing
businesses which you may end up talking
about in this podcast twitch metrics
which what is Twitch metrics twitch
metrics is a business you started what
what is it what was it and then you flip
this right yep that's right so twitch
for those of you that are unaware is a
video streaming platform specifically
around gaming although it seems like
they've
advance to other things like music
concerts and uh just chatting just live
streaming anything really but it started
primarily in in gaming my business
partner and I have been very passionate
about the idea of electronic sports or
Competitive Gaming for as long as we can
remember he was really big into World of
Warcraft I was big into RuneScape and
the smaller kinds of games and when
twitch first launched we watched a lot
of it it's very reminiscent of those of
you that are really into sports where
you kind of get out of that age where
you can't play professional soccer or
football or whatnot but we still want to
pay attention and you know be in the
game I think that's kind of where twitch
has found its Niche and we thought it'd
be really cool to scrape the viewership
data of twitch and graph everyone's
trajectory in terms of viewer hours
watch time follower growth in what you
know as the common tools that help with
say Twitter follower growth or you know
Facebook follower growth so my business
partner he's technical he's full stack
he basically tapped into the Twitch API
and pulled their their viewer data every
10 minutes as long as you are a
partnered streamer and had more than 10
viewers we were graphing we were taking
that data from twitch and graphing
everyone's performance on on the
internet so you can imagine if you were
a popular streamer you would search your
Twitch handle and you know it might be
like ninja who's popular at fortnite or
Pokey main who's popular at just being
an Entertainer and our website would pop
up it would also pop up for searches
like League of Legends game statistics
or viewership numbers because we had all
of the the game data as well and so
twitch metrics started as a passion
project and then got up to millions of
sessions a month yeah
and so like how did you monetize this
before you and I want to talk about the
sales process how did you monetize this
so you've got lots of sessions did you
just put some ads on or did you allow
more metrics for paid memberships to for
people to be able to grow their channels
or what goals something different I
guess great great question and I think
that software has always been something
that my business partner and I love and
want not necessarily media and ads so we
actually never really tried the whole
RPM you know slap a bunch of banner ads
on it I did some rough math and it
alluded to the idea that we could be
making you know X thousands of dollars a
month from RPM but that wasn't something
that we were really that interested in
instead we were actually more interested
in the the note that you mentioned
around you know selling access to deeper
more robust data because we were getting
a lot of interest from these are like
professional sports teams I forget off
the top of my head
but like the one of the NHL teams in
like Florida wanted to buy data to use
in a deck and Goldman Sachs actually
reached out and they wanted to use
twitch metrics data in a earnings report
talking about Activision Blizzard and
pokemane as the most popular female
streamer I like had a Skype call with
her where she was very interested in
knowing her audience overlap with other
popular streamers so that she could know
like when she would likely go live and
in what categories that her audience was
was interested in so overall there was a
good amount of business demand in a more
robust data set surrounding the you know
ins and outs of all of these game
viewership numbers but we were really
focused on on clear scope which was is
our other software product and basically
when it came time to to pick and choose
we decided that clearscope was going to
be the one where we we scaled it and
that meant that twitch metrics had to
had to be sold or shut down yeah right
yeah well you just answered the next
question I had around why why so
um so when you came to decision right
cool clearscope and we're going to get
to that in our discussion what that is
everything about that once you realize
the right call it's time for twitch
metrics to go what did you learn about
deal were there some things that you
needed to do to get the business ready
for sale uh what are some of the things
that you learned through that sales
process that other people listening may
like really get a lot of insights if
they're thinking about selling their
business
yeah I think that it really depends on
what you're looking to sell in terms of
the the asset right there there's a
variety of different metrics that a
potential acquirer is going to evaluate
your website on one of them is just
straight straight traffic right that's
probably you know the barrier entry
level is if we're talking about content
sites you know how much traffic is this
getting and where are the different
sources coming from it's probably more
valuable if you have a variety of
different data sources which doesn't
make you prone to being crushed by a
Google update right if you can say hey
I'm getting a lot of traffic from from
Facebook or Instagram or you know
there's a big email list that you can
you can also sell so what is the asset
and what are the different traffic
sources that it's getting from there
one level above that is is going to be
Revenue right how much revenue is the
the website bringing in and also what
type of Revenue is it so you're gonna
have and you know I'm sure Jared has
talked about this at length but you're
going to have different multiples based
on what kind of website it is you know
FBA sites are are going to be valued
very differently than online media sites
which will be valued very differently
than software sites and you know those
numbers will depend greatly on how much
revenue you're doing bigger is always
better and the multiples on on those
will get bigger if you're bigger
so those are going to be as well as well
yeah within the business model yeah yeah
because our business model is key from
there I mean you know one level above
revenue is what you'd call ebitda or you
know earnings before tax interest and
like accrual and that's basically okay
well you know how much are you paying
your team the contractors that are
supporting this and at the end of the
day what is the profit that somebody is
taking home from this particular
business and that's oftentimes where at
least you know the smaller the website
is
the more it graduates into talking about
ebitda whereas the larger the website is
the more it's going to graduate to be
talked about Revenue so
um yeah a small lure websites will will
sell at different ebitda like sorts of
things and it's just important to
understand you know where what
the acquirer is trying to what's their
goal with purchasing your business and
again for the most part for most of you
listening it's it's going to be ebitda
but you can imagine there are strategic
ways that you can frame your business
where you can sell actually more based
on revenue or or traffic depending on
you know how you want to position your
business to be sold so that's kind of my
take on that yeah cool cool yeah I'm so
glad that you mentioned the different
traffic sources
um and
that you know what we what I like to
call single Source dependency if you've
got all your traffic coming just from
Google and there's that risk that Google
can have an algorithm change and your
site is not within the policy terms and
then you can lose some traffic
um if most of the traffic's coming from
Google but then we have different types
of traffic like you said Facebook uh
Instagram you know a lot of content
sites that have dug into Pinterest over
the last few years and got a lot of
Pinterest traffic because that's a
search engine I have my take on
Pinterest as well personally for Content
sites and the intents of the traffic and
that's what I want to talk to you about
is Loop this into an important question
that I want to unpack with you about the
intent of traffic so the intent of
traffic from Facebook compared to Google
is very different the same as Google
traffic compared to Pinterest traffic
and then Pinterest traffic compared to
Instagram traffic and then all the other
platforms so and and you've talked about
as well at length um search intent and
helping people
understand search intents to find better
keywords to get more traffic tell me
tell me your take on this on the
different types of intents of traffic
and the value that can come from the
knowing the intent in understanding the
intent of that traffic no yeah no I mean
there's there's so much to unpack there
yes sorry no no it's good there's one
question yeah yeah this is why you know
Google is one of the most valuable
businesses on on the planet Earth right
is because they have a search engine
that's dialed into intact right when
somebody searches best fishing rod
they know that you're researching right
like which fishing rods that you should
you should buy you know if Google serves
you an ad about fishing rods because
you you know expressed in your you know
profile that you went fishing it's less
clear that you're on the market for a
fishing rod right it's more clear that
you're interested in Facebook and you
know that's probably why Facebook is
well one of the most valuable businesses
on on the internet as well is that they
have interest intent but Google has
transactional like commercial intent
based on exactly what you're searching
for and you know the fact that Pinterest
is is well a valuable company but not
nearly as valuable as the other ones
also just speaks to the type of intent
that Pinterest is is able to to gather
so you know in my opinion if we're just
talking straight intent like traffic
from Google is the most valuable and
you're not gonna get better than that
unless you have an email list
and you know if you have an email list
chances are you're not running a Content
site chances are yeah you're running I'm
so fortunate right you should have an
email list yeah yeah yeah yeah chances
are you're running you know either a
membership a a course a you know like an
access to uh yeah a Discord or something
right that's more membership driven so
yeah yeah I mean you can take lists and
turn them into businesses but it's a
completely different Beast altogether
and I would yeah and I would say that
yeah the email list has a higher intent
than Google search traffic but also
there are there are you know there
there's some caveats within that like
you can have a remarketing list that you
have built on Google which is gonna be a
more targeted list and maybe on Facebook
maybe but also
um on YouTube or all these different
platforms I was basically if you look at
it as a read and we could put email list
into basically being a retargeting list
as well but I just wanted to like I want
to expand this a little bit more just
for people that don't really understand
what we mean by intent when you think
about people going to Google what are
they going to the Google for they're
going to Google for answers in the most
basic term right they're going for
answers to find out how they answer
their question like what type of fishing
rod should I buy they're very close to
buying a fishing rod whereas if you you
on Facebook you're not on Facebook to
buy a fishing rod you're on Facebook to
look at pictures of friends family dogs
babies and events that might be
happening really and when a fishing rod
pops up you might be might be interested
in it but your level of Interest isn't
as high as I'm actually going to Google
to find out which type of fishing rod to
buy is so much closer to buying I just
wanted to expand that because some
people may have not grasped what we
meant by that so then once we understand
the search intent how do we start to
evolve and this could be sometimes for
affiliate sites and it could be also be
for just straight up ad Revenue science
how do we evolve our and once we
understand Google being the most
valuable source of I would say organic
traffic for search intent how do we
evolve our keyword strategy to go what
are the best types of keywords with the
highest level of intent yeah yeah
contents are totally I think that you
know what people would generally pack
down is is those very long tail searches
and for those of you who don't know what
long tail is it's usually a search
phrase that includes three five
different characters right you could be
like best fishing rods under fifty
dollars with real or something like that
right it's very specific it's very long
so those are going to be the highest
value
keywords from an intent perspective
because when somebody is typing
something that long into Google chances
are they've already done a lot of
research right compared to somebody
who's searching for fishing rods or even
best fishing rods right it's like layers
and layers like below the other
interesting thing if we're talking about
intent which you might have been hearing
thrown around is topical Authority and
topical Authority is this idea that
Google is very good about understanding
what your website should be ranking for
based on what the content is and how the
current performance of that content
should look so you kind of hear this
advice right just you know don't always
go after the highly valuable super juicy
keywords like best fishing rod under 200
also create content around benefits of a
fly fishing rod versus a real fishing
rod or you know what is a fishing rod or
how do fishing rods work and you need
these supporting pieces of content to
prove to Google that you are an
authority on fishing rods to then
qualify to rank for best fishing rod or
best fishing rod under 200 so now you
have like a couple of Concepts at play
right you have search intent which is
what are your money keywords right if
you were to rank for this is this going
to pull in you know a good amount of
affiliate revenue for you but then you
also have topical Authority which is
juggling how much supporting content
that you have that's not really that
high intent but putting it into place so
that you can prove to Google that your
content your website should rank for
Content associated with fishing rods in
the first place yeah I love it I love
that explanation thank you so much and
so if you've got high level search
intent keywords and content you're
creating and then you've got topical
Authority content I would I would dare
say that the topical Authority keywords
and articles that you're creating have a
higher search volume than the search the
high level search intent because then
the question becomes how do you how do
you juggle how many pieces of content
you create for a search intent and then
how many you create for topical
Authority and how aggressive do you go
in each each of those content strategies
it'll never go in deep yeah yeah so I
mean I have some high level thoughts and
don't quote me on this but it's
generally what I've seen is as low as a
three to one ratio is like okay if
you're talking about if you want to rank
for best fishing rods you have three
supporting pieces of content that are
not transactionally relevant whatsoever
to fishing rod so what is a fishing rod
advantages of fishing rods and you know
how fishing rods work and then you have
best fishing rods we've seen also you
know I would say that's that's pretty
aggressive in terms of the supporting
like content is the three to one ratio
I'd say what's normal more normal is
like an eight to one ratio right so you
can imagine best fishing rods and then
you have you know what it is how it
works why it's important you know
fishing rods versus you know other types
of fishing rods different types of
fishing rods and then your best fishing
rods that's going to be like a more
healthy looking ratio well I don't know
if like that's there's a such thing as
what you know I'm saying that Google's
like really like oh yeah it's a three to
one ratio it's on the the thinner side I
don't think that that's how it really
works but just general observations in
terms of like a healthy
uh mix of informational research and you
know juicy money pages
yeah so who because this is why this is
the conundrum that people have when they
come to the internet and they their goal
is I want to make money online it's like
how do I make as much money as fast as I
can and I have a very short-term Focus
because they're like I need to I need to
just replace my income which is a great
a great goal rather than think about I
need a replacement income that I want to
be so secure and I want to build a
really good brand and make a really good
impact and have all these other goals
and I get where people are at you know I
was there in the survival phase of
needing to get out of that nine-to-five
thing so I definitely understand the
energy towards trying to make as much
money as possible as soon as possible
yeah
uh but the long the long game is is very
important and Google is really knuckling
down and identifying this and this is
what bigger Brands and better businesses
do is they and this will probably loop
back into some of the stuff about the
helpful content update as well is that
if you're less aggressive on trying to
extract money as soon as possible and
more aggressive on maybe you do have
eight topical Authority articles two one
and you're just making a big impact
there's a couple of things that can
happen there Google can see that all
right you're not just trying to just get
as much money from people as quickly as
they can after they come out of Google
or come from Google you're adding so
much value to them and then what can
happen in your business is because
you're adding so much value the trust
builds the relationship bills that it
becomes a no-brainer like when they see
your you know article on the best
fishing rods they've just read eight
articles or maybe three or five from you
and just gotten so much value that that
would be silly not to go to your
recommendations right is that what
you're is that what you're seeing with
the helpful content update or let's sort
of we can unpack that as well yeah no
there's there's I think a couple of
threads there to to unpack so I am of
the belief that Google the way that
Google's algorithm Works currently can
be best centered around what I'll call
user engagement signal even though it's
not specifically that like you know some
seos will fight me too female to say
that Google does not use user engagement
signal they use you know a variety of
different factors that allude to whether
or not the user found what they needed
and I'm just going to simplify that and
say Google uses user engagement signal
so essentially what you could imagine
Google is doing is that Google is
running in Infinity a B test if you
don't know what an A B test is it's
literally in its simplest way you serve
one user one one variant of something
and we'll just say for this example you
have a landing page and there's a blue
button and it says sign up and then you
have another landing page just has a red
button and it says sign up everything
else is identical and an A B test
literally then presents this data over a
wide amount of users until it finds
statistical significance in that the
people click more on the red button
rather than the blue button in which
case you can declare that the blue
button or the red button is is more
satisfactory and will generate higher
click-through rates so that's an A B
test in Simplicity you can imagine when
I say infinite a B test a search engine
results page is literally a page that
has usually 10 Slots of search results
and you can imagine for you know the
sake of Simplicity we'll just say
there's rank number one and rank number
two
rank number one is going to be you know
bestfishingrods.com and rank number two
is going to be REI so in you know this
variant we have bestfishingrods.com rank
number one REI rank number two and
Google is going to present that to a set
of users who Googled best fishing rods
Google's gonna see okay you know how
many people are clicking on result
number one and then subsequently going
back to the search results and clicking
on result number two in which case seos
might call this pogo sticking but
jumping around right in different search
results and they're going to say okay
well let's say for this particular
example forty percent clicked on result
number one and then 50 clicked on result
number two well Google is going to say
well all right that REI thing like you
know lots of people want that so why
didn't why don't we have an experiment
where we're going to put REI as rank
number one and best fishing rods as rank
number two and then you see like sixty
percent click on REI thirty percent
click on best fishing rods and now
Google says okay great well then REI
deserves to be number one because right
more people are clicking on it and then
less people are subsequently going back
to Google and doing something else
um the going back to Google and doing
something else is exactly the point that
Google's actually looking at Google's
come out and say okay we don't care
about click-through rates we don't care
about pogo sticking but what they've
been I think pretty much like saying is
that they care about subsequent actions
so you can imagine they care if somebody
clicks on page two like oh maybe that
page one was not good they care if
somebody clicked on images that's how
you see an image Carousel graduate into
the slot of 10. they care if somebody
clicks on videos that's how you see a
video Carousel and graduate into the
slot of 10 and they care about all of
the subsequent searches so if I search
best fishing rod I click on result
number one clicked on two three four
five and then I went back to Google and
said best fishing rods under 200
Google's gonna know that and say okay
maybe in the future for best fishing
rods I should include one result that
comes from best fishing rods under 200
right if there's enough people that do
that so topical Authority basically
speaks to this fact that should somebody
perform an additional search your
content is there and serving the user
and Google knows that right so I might
have started with different types of
fishing rods and then REI came up and
that's great and then I typed in best
fishing rods and then REI came up again
and Google's saying okay you know this
this brand and website knows how to
write about fishing rods so they deserve
all of these different positions
surrounding it because right it's doing
a good job meeting the needs of the
Searcher so that's like one part of what
what you were talking about and then the
Google helpful content update I think is
is something you know interesting but
different altogether than what has been
happening with this machine learning and
user engagement signal testing yeah
awesome so topical content topical
Authority content is very very valuable
it just comes back to Authority not just
the more eyeballs human eyeballs on your
REI domain but also Google seeing your
domain multiple times for multiple
search races or you know keywords
on on that domain so very key to to
topical Authority can help you actually
increase rankings
um for your money Pages really yeah yeah
yeah perhaps the most
important thing that many people don't
talk about is actually navigational
searches so for those of you that are
unaware of what a navigational search is
a navigational search is basically a
lazy way of searching for a brand and a
specific product or piece of content
within that brand so the most common
example that's the easiest to wrap your
head around is Amazon right have you
ever gone to Google and just said like
Amazon backpack and then you know it
basically took you to Amazon's category
page on backpacks that is what a
navigational search is and that is what
instructs Google about how brands should
be associated with very high level like
topics to lower level categories is that
you can imagine
if people are searching for fishing rods
and you know we'll say Bernard myself
sells fishing rods and I want Bernard's
fishing rods to rank for fishing rod
how do you do that a lot of people say
well you just got to build a bajillion
backlinks and then it's like no no I
don't think so that's not how you do
that how you do that is when somebody
performs a search for fishing rod you
need to convince a significant amount of
those people that a search engine
results page without Bernard's fishing
rods is an unsatisfactory experience how
you do that is that they search for
fishing rods they don't see Bernard's
fishing rods but that's actually what
they wanted to see so they now have to
go back to Google and search again for
Bernard's fishing rods get my website
and click on that domain and conclude
their search Journey performing no
additional actions on Google I have to
convince you know say there's a hundred
thousand people searching for fishing
rods every month it's a significant
amount is not that high right if you got
500 or a thousand people to do that you
would literally then be training
Google's machine learning to say hey
yeah this search engine results page is
not good unless it has Bernard's fishing
rods and that's actually how you uh rank
for rank for that which is why PR is is
a thing right like if you ran a Super
Bowl commercial that was like buy your
fishing rods at Bernard's fishing rod
and people were like great that's
exactly what I wanted and typed in
fishing rod and like where's Bernard's
fishing rod right I'm creating now a lot
of navigational searches that associate
my brand with that particular search
and that's um anyways another
thing that people misunderstand how it's
really cool to understand like that's
why branding campaigns work is getting
your name in front of people and then
when they go to Google or somewhere to
search it they're training Google to say
like hey it needs to have that brand in
the in the keyword yeah yeah so and then
there's there's the helpful content
update I think version one of the
helpful content update we just did kind
of a like a round table discussion with
some of the top seos about this you have
a later Kevin and dig Ethan Kevin was on
there we just had him on the podcast oh
nice yeah yeah and and
um our speculation right since it's
still very early is that this is like
version one of panda like many years
back so Panda if you're not familiar
with it was basically a duplicate or
plagiarism content check and The Helpful
content update at least in its current
form looks like it's looking at
specifically duplicative content right
so lyric websites is a good example that
was brought up during the discussion a
lyric website is literally duplicative
with all other lyric websites so a lot
of those got slammed by the Google
update because they were offering
nothing new or in SEO speak people are
calling this Information Gain they were
not offering any information gain on the
content of the website that actually
came out as a winner was genius because
they have a lot of user generated
content specifically about you know what
certain lyrics mean in in the different
phrases like comments and stuff you mean
on there yeah yeah so at least in the
very first V1 uh what the Google helpful
content update looks like it's doing is
that it it's looking at just straight
okay this is plagiarized
um and you know that's it's very basic
where where we think that it's heading
is more along this category of
information gain which is to say okay
how much net new uniqueness is this
topic adding to or this piece of content
adding to this topic and the way that
I've at least thought about it is is
through
the knowledge graph which is a
complicated way of saying something like
topical Authority which is that Google
knows that when you talk about fishing
rods you know boats is kind of related
but not you know completely off par like
League of Legends right League of
Legends and fishing rod like really
don't go together boats is at least
closer in terms of conceptual
categorization so our our guests at
least Ethan and I's guess is that Google
wants to know that if you're talking
about fishing rods that you're also
mentioning you know what boat each
fishing rod like might be might be like
better with and you know Google wants to
see that you've talked about boats and
it's going to reward you for that but
it's not going to reward you for
literally putting in all kinds of random
stuff about something so unique that
it's not even related to the topic that
you're writing about so that's so unique
perspective basically a unique
perspective on what the topic is yeah
not just you unique as in It's So Random
that it's like does make sense right
yeah yeah and then they're going to do
that from like an entity like or in
natural language processing these would
be like entities so fishing rod and you
know canoe it's like okay you you've
used canoe and nobody else has used
canoe like okay maybe this piece of
content deserves some additional
attention because that you know we were
looking for that information gain or you
know that interesting new
content around that that we think is
tangentially related that's very it's
it's very interesting like it's the it
starts to get quite technical with the
keywords I'm thinking about how does how
does one content creator just create
awesome unique content but it's not just
about creating great content that's got
value but it is also really about having
the right words that can get you ranked
to get the right level of traffic or the
right level of ranking as well so
there's a there really is the
combination between an Artful piece of
content but the seo seo piece as well
definitely how do you how do you explain
to people to juggle that yeah
um
yeah it's it's hard I mean you know if
we're just saying from like I'll I'll
put on my white hat it's like well
higher subject matter experts buy the
fraud like the the products that you're
reviewing take unique photos let's do
that yeah like you know people saying
that stuff yeah people people know I
mean okay I'm like deep deep in the
weeds and I I know
um you know that the majority of these
pros and cons that are being written are
are from people that have not at all
touched touched the product you know I
need three images Max
in the Philippines and that's it yeah
exactly yeah I wanna I wanna see you
using the the fishing rod right I want
to see a fit a big fat fish on the end
of one of them that you bought under
fifty dollars and I want to know why I
should trust you so
um yeah all right that's me putting on
you know my my white people are smart
man right they're smart right like they
wanna they they uh somebody spoke to me
about this the other day they know
nothing about making money online but
they're like every time I go to find
something to buy it's like you've got
all these people trying to sell me these
crappy things with just images pros and
cons list and and no and and they've who
is behind this website yeah there's no
image at all so that's that's putting on
your your white SEO
haters and then you've got some some
black yeah yeah yeah so you know um the
complete like end of the spectrum you
know we can we can talk about some some
crazy juice right if there is this idea
of user engagement signal or pogo
sticking going back to the search
results I've heard people who will
manually redirect
a chunk of the traffic we'll call it
like 20 to 30 percent to their home page
when you hit back through like a meta
refresh
um you know kind of HTTP thing that you
can do and and that drives up your your
user engagement signal that's uh you
know kind of interesting
I've seen I've heard a lot of black hat
ish oh yeah that's that's like as black
as black as well okay you know there's
there's blacker but
um
there there's also
what is it
oh yeah just click click stream
manipulation right you just hire people
you go to like Mechanical Turk although
you know Google's pretty smart where the
IP addresses are coming from but you
know if you literally told people to
Google fishing rod and navigate to
Bernard you know
bernardsfishingrods.com and click on
that result that that boosts your your
content's ability to rank and Google is
more willing to test that you know you
do that too much and and Google Flags
you and then you get basically delisted
from the search edger results page you
get timed out because Google Google
knows that you're doing you know Shady
click manipulation stuff so you know
that's these are ways to I guess like
you know get your website off the ground
when you're like kind of getting first
getting started
um
yeah what a lot of people will also do
is you know you can use gpt3 some cool
new natural language generation
technology to write reviews unique
reviews for you like of the products
like just create
ugc that's basically you know fake so
that you have you know unique
interesting content to back up like your
comment section if like you know that's
that's what you wanted so you know
that's that's more black of course but
yeah let's put it let's put a cap on
that we don't want to be
um yeah it's interesting to know but I
don't want to be having that go out into
the world yeah no no no you know these
are yeah and then you know the gray or
the grayer types of types of things are
are just simply going to be
um
yeah really you know find striking the
balance of not really having you know
much a subject matter expertise on on
the product or or service and and really
you know trying to write like you do and
really try to drive home the user to to
trust you and you know like kind of
almost make up some some criteria as to
why they should trust you but you know
I'd say that's more common than you
would expect it's very common it's very
common but I would urge people to be
very creative about about this like if
you've got a Blog around fishing rods
and you don't want to write the contents
that you want to have a really good
review like why don't you just go hey
find a blogger that loves fishing and
say hey can I buy you a fishing rod and
can you do a video review on it send it
to me and we'll unpack that we'll turn
it into a blog post that's good that's
great eat for the site amazing you've
got a review from people that are Fisher
people and they trust and you bought the
rod it's I think that's I think that's
cool right you don't have to
you know do it in a in a weird way that
nobody like literally nobody who's
buying a fishing rod likes or Google
definitely definitely and to bring it
around full circle to what you're you're
saying when you're looking to buy or
sell your website you're going to be
grilled on on this this stuff like in
and out this is what somebody who's
buying your website wants to know like
we went through a variety of technical
SEO Audits and content SEO Audits and
black hat SEO Audits and that's always
going to happen especially if you're
selling a Content site that's
specifically heavily focused on SEO
these people are smart right buyers of
websites are going to do their due
diligence and if they uncover unsavory
backlink building techniques or you know
spun content or whatever
your website even if it's making tens of
thousands of dollars a month for you
every month it's not it's not gonna have
an easy time selling right because at a
moment's notice this buyer knows that
your website might just eat eat it from
from Google and take a nosedive and
they're not willing to take take that
risk so I would not recommend any of the
the like unsavory techniques and I think
we are entering a world where
backlinks are taking more of a back seat
they're still useful when you're getting
started but you know instead of
let's say you know you have ten thousand
dollars to work with instead of taking
that ten thousand dollars and budgeting
five thousand for backlinks and you know
five thousand for Content we're seeing
more people say okay let's do 8 000 on
on the content and maybe you know like
one thousand on the initial set of
backlinks and really try to focus more
on the quality of the content and that's
to say you know instead of one piece you
know paying say
10 pieces for a thousand dollars right
like get one piece for a thousand
dollars yeah and right like really hone
in on that and then I mean this is like
a complete no-brainer but just like ask
yourself if you were to land on your own
best fishing rods page would you would
you be satisfied
with what you're reading and what you're
getting and you know be truthful be
honest and you know like if you are like
wow that was this is the best damn piece
of content I've written around helping
somebody find the best fishing rod then
you know you're you're heading in the
right place more people need to be
asking themselves that question for sure
thank you for bringing that up uh
clearscope let's why why did you decide
to I want to unpack this a bit why did
you decide to go with clearscope scale
that what what is it about and how does
it work yes so clear scope is a software
as a service company that my co-founder
and I started about
six years ago at this point before that
our background was actually as SEO
Consultants we started an SEO agency
called Mushi Labs that focused on
helping large websites with programmatic
SEO so this is kind of important to
understanding why clearscope came to
exist so large website programmatic SEO
what is that if you've been to a Trip
Advisor page a Zillow Yelp page this is
what a large website that employs
programmatic SEO looks like generally
you'll have a database of a lot of
different records of things and a
programmatic website like TripAdvisor
will take that and spin it into 100 of
millions of pages in tripadvisor's case
sometimes hundreds of thousands so what
you end up doing as an SEO for a large
website is more testing and more
template driven right like TripAdvisor
has an attractions page they have a
category page they have you know these
different types of pages and what you're
doing is that you're saying okay I'm
gonna slice off Sydney and in Sydney
what we're going to do is we're going to
try a carousel of attractions where you
know these are the top rated things and
you know in Melbourne what we're going
to do is we're going to just use a list
and have it be card driven and then what
you're doing is you're then measuring
the impact of conversion rates but also
rankings on these different styles of
pages depending on you know how people
are engaging with that and that's you
know kind of what you find out is that
oh okay if the pages are more engaging
then your rank go up so anyways we were
doing a lot of SEO Consulting working
with these large websites like doordash
Teespring Strava right very large
websites and running these tests where
we'd say to doordash okay you know
create this template that that looks
like this and we're going to use that
then to evaluate in that market whether
that test beat these other markets and
so you're constantly a b testing right
the best user experience that will then
produce more conversions for your
website but also improve your your
rankings and one of the tests that we we
ran was to use natural language
processing on top ranking Google content
to inform how a piece of content should
be shaped so like a good example is
you're searching for or the things to do
in Sydney Australia and of course you're
going to see Opera House show up as as
like an entity so what we would do is we
would say okay well if you're talking
about the things to do in in Sydney then
you got to talk about opera house like
and so we then included that as a
recommendation in terms of what the
client should include on their page and
we ran that as a test long story short
and results came back phenomenally for
our set of clients and we're like okay
well let's uh let's take this and you
know turn it into something clear scope
is then a Content optimization tool and
it helps you think through what a high
quality piece of content should look
like for any topic that you're you're
writing about and gives you the
recommendations to say talking about
things to do in Sydney you got to
include opera house and all these other
attractions because that's what we see
Google's Knowledge Graph associating
with this particular topic
yeah cool and so is this just for large
sites wanting
programmatic SEO as well as content
optimization for those particular pieces
of the content or is it or is it for any
any sort of blogger that wants to just
create great pieces of content but know
what they should have in that one
article I guess yeah it's very topical
Authority yeah no it's actually for more
of the Blogger the long form content
writer so if we talk about the two major
branches of SEO you have programmatic
and you have editorial and where
clearscope really shines is to in the
editorial basically we help with
optimizing quality content and where
Google cares most about quality content
is in editorial content right when
you're talking about like a landing page
like the things to do in Sydney where
it's kind of got a lot of user generated
content what users in Google cares about
is more things like user generated
content pictures multimedia quality
content is still a factor it's just
maybe 10 instead of 30 which is what you
see with the longer form editorial stuff
love it love it cool uh so where can
people go check out kaleiscope and more
about what you're doing as well bye
before all that I have to say thank you
so much for
for everything you've shared it's been
it's been really good to chat to you I'm
glad I'm glad it does too yeah yeah no
you you can find out more about me on on
Twitter at Bernard J Huang you can find
out more about clear scope by going to
our website clearscope.io
and we we're helping people really think
about creating quality content and
making sure that their resources and
dollars are are going into the right
place we don't you know want to pollute
the ever-growing landfill of content
that exists out there we want to make
sure that you know you're creating the
high quality stuff and we'll arm you
with the tools and the workflows to to
make that happen
and yeah that's what we do love it
Bernard thank you so much and not just
thanks for coming on the podcast thanks
for doing what you're doing with
clearscope the internet needed needs
that we need it
um so we we really appreciate you coming
on and sharing this and doing what you
do also for those that are listening
thank you so much for listening if you
have a website and you're generating
content make sure you check out
clearscope if you know somebody else
that has a website or is going to buy a
website and they're going to be creating
content make sure they come and listen
to this podcast episode there's so much
value I would even suggest you as a
listener listen to this again in maybe a
couple of weeks time to pick up on those
things that you didn't pick up on like
when you read a book a year ago and you
re-learned all the things that you
missed thank you so much again Bernard
and thanks everybody for listening hey
YouTube Watcher if you thought that
video is good you should check out this
video here on the two best types of
websites beginners should buy or check
out my playlist on how I made my first
100k from buying websites and how to do
due diligence check it out it's an
awesome playlist you'll enjoy it